OK so now that we have understood what the documents snapshot object is let's look at the other type
of snapshot we can get which is a query snapshot or a collection snapshot if you want to see it like
that.
So we get our query snapshot object from a collection reference object and it is very similar to the
documents snapshot object that we just looked at.
The only difference is that there's a couple other properties that reflect the fact that we're looking
at a collection.
Now let's actually log it out first so I've returned our firebase utilize back to what we had before
where everything was working as we had it before.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to make a new collection reference equal to fire store dot collection
at users so we know that users is our only existing collection if we were to check.
We know that users is the only collection that we have.
Now I'm also going to call the snapshot
by calling collection ref.
I get the same way that we did with our document reference.
Right.
So now if I save and actually log out the collection snapshot
we can see what properties we have so if we scroll up here we see our collection snapshot object and
on it we see that there is these new properties the main ones that we care about our docs empty and
size.
Now what docs tells us is it gives us back an array of the documents inside of our collection but their
query documents snapshot objects.
So their documents snapshot objects the ones that we just explored earlier the empty property is similar
to the exists property except it tells us whether or not our query is empty or not.
So it returns a boolean.
And of course empty is false because we know that we have three different documents inside of our collection
the last property we care about is size which just tells us how many objects are inside of our documents
inside of this collection and using this collection snapshot we're able to for example get all of our
collection items and then what we can do is on the dot docs method we can map over it get the data of
each object using the snapshot dot data method that we saw in our last lesson in order to get a Jason
object of all of our objects and what that would look like for example is if we did a collection snapshot.
Docs dot map right.
Doc Doc Dot data
collection like so now if we save and we look what we will see is the array of each of our user objects.
I know it's a little tricky because it's probably not the format that you're used to.
If you've ever fetched data before from a back end but this is just the way that fire store wants us
to do it with these types of objects that we get back using our collection snapshot object we can just
call docs which gives us the array of snapshots of the documents we map over it and then we just make
sure to call dot data on those documents snapshot objects to get the actual Jason representation of
the values of those document but that's really all there is to it.
We'll of course use these objects in different ways in order to update our data or set our data or get
our data.
But I just wanted for us to go over what these objects are and now hopefully this code that we wrote
before in order for us to store our user in our back end makes more sense.
The only thing to keep note of is that on these refs there's also this on snapshot method in particular
on our user ref right.
Which we get back from our create user profile document.
We see that what we do is that the main thing that this create user profile document returns is a user
ref and what we do with it is we check to see using a similar listener as our on auth state changed.
We use this on snapshot listener so that whenever the snapshot changes right meaning that whenever the
documents snapshot object updates whether because we set a new value or we updated the value or we deleted
the value it will pass that snapshot into ah listener which we've attached to this on snapshot and our
listeners just this function and what we do is we call our set current user action creator method.
So our redux method to set the actual current user object in our reader's reducer and that's how we
are able to store that user on our current user likes up and that's all it is.
So I'm just going over what we wrote before right except a little bit more detail about the types of
objects and the types of queries we can make against fire store because now we're going to use this
in theory to move our shop items onto our fire store data.